---
site: [pasteur, freiburg, erasmusmc, elixir-it, belgium, genouest]
tags: [release]
title: UseGalaxy.eu update to 21.01
supporters:
 - denbi
 - elixir
---

UseGalaxy.eu has been updated to 21.01, a few days before the official release. Enjoy the preview!


## Some Highlights

### New History Panel (Beta)
  This release includes a preview of the new History Panel. The new history panel can be enabled and disabled in the options menu -> Use Beta History Panel.

### Performance Improvements
  This release includes many performance improvements for browsing and searching Data libraries (Many thanks to `Oleg Zharkov <https://github.com/OlegZharkov>`__, `Pull Request 10204`_, `Pull Request 11099`_, `Pull Request 10557`_, `Pull Request 10558`_, `Pull Request 10807`_),
  and improved job creation performance for certain classes of tools and copying Histories, Datasets and Dataset Collections (`Pull Request 10539`_, `Pull Request 10549`_).

### Offload Zip Archive Creation to NGINX
  Galaxy can now utilize the NGINX module `mod_zip <https://www.nginx.com/resources/wiki/modules/zip/>`__ to assemble and compress dataset collection and library dataset archives on the fly.
  This method is more efficient and can create large archives without affecting the Galaxy server process. 

### Workflow Enhancements and Fixes
  This release contains many new features, enhancements and bug fixes for creating, running and reporting workflows.
  
### History Import and Export
  Histories can now be imported from and exported to the pluggable file source architecture introduced in the 20.09 release of Galaxy.
  This includes the users' FTP folder, S3, Dropbox, ownCloud, etc. In addition, the History Export and Import dialogues have been rewritten
  to provide access to these new options and to provide more feedback during Import and Export process.


---

If you find issues, please [let us know](mailto:contact@usegalaxy.eu)!
